The challenge of serving
in a foreign country can sometimes be that
because you’ve made that move
and you’ve learned a foreign language,
you can feel like you’ve done enough.
I was brought up by a Witness mother,
so I studied the Bible since I was small.
So I thought I had
Bible knowledge to some extent.
My wife and I have enjoyed
the traveling work for 18 years.
As we get older, trials that we never experienced
when we were young
have come up one after another.
After I got married and had children,
I had a hard time explaining
the backgrounds
of some Bible characters or Biblical history
when I studied the Bible with my children.
Then I realized
that I did not have enough Bible knowledge.
And another challenge can be
that you’re dealing
with a foreign culture in the territory,
but you also have
many different cultures in the congregation.
When I struggle
to fulfill various responsibilities
in a balanced way
—things such as caring for aged parents
and our own health issues—
it can be a source of stress
and cause tension between my wife and me.
The study article
“Move Forward as a Spiritual Person!”
in February 2018 was a big help.
The expressions:
“Once we have identified areas
for improvement, we need to take positive steps”
and that “it is a life-and-death matter”
really touched my heart.
I realized
that I needed to scrutinize my life seriously
and make improvements
for my own future and that of my family.
The article had a quote
from Brother Barr that said:
“Many fail because they
are not diligent enough to grow mighty.”
This made me think,
‘Am I mighty enough to overcome any challenges
‘that might come up,
difficulties with brothers and sisters,
in a way that pleases Jehovah?’
To move ahead as a spiritual person,
I realized that I needed
to get Jehovah’s thinking on matters
and really look at Bible principles.
And that means letting go of my pride;
and when it comes back, letting go of it again
and really making
Jehovah’s thoughts my own thoughts.
I have a bad tendency to try to do everything
by myself and to not delegate things to others.
I asked myself,
‘What decision will please Jehovah?’
“Make sure of the more important things.”
I felt the need to train
younger brothers in the congregation
so that I could delegate responsibilities to them.
The article encouraged us
to look to Bible principles.
And two that really helped me
were Proverbs 15:28 and Philippians 2:4
because it helped me to think
about what is in the person’s best interests
before I respond to them.
I took time when reading Bible accounts
to meditate on how I would feel
if I were one of those Bible characters.
I can now explain things better
at my children’s study.
I’m very happy to see my children
truly enjoying Christian activities.
My son started doing “play meetings” for fun.
My daughter loves the ministry.
She talks to people willingly,
not because we as parents
are telling her to do so.
Compared to how it was when I was a child,
things are totally different now,
and that really makes me happy.
By applying this principle,
I can lighten my load
and reduce my stress level.
In turn, that helps me to maintain joy,
to strengthen our relationship as a couple,
and I feel I’ve become
more approachable to those in the congregation.
Having the “mind of Christ”
has helped me in my assignment
because it’s helped me to form
really close friendships
with the brothers and sisters
in my congregation, and that’s brought me
a lot of joy in my service.
And also, when I don’t know
what to do (which often happens),
I have Jehovah’s principles to guide me,
and that makes me feel safe and secure.